# Markov1
first markov project for CC


This system is called the Markov Cat Rainbow Generator. The program can be run with no system arguments on the command line. That being said, in order to change the drawing object to the nyan cat, you must uncomment the two lines 30 and 31, and replace the my_filepath in line 29 line with your absolute filepath to this directory. 

This program uses turtle and the markov property to generate rainbow line art. The attributes direction, color, and pensize are determined by first order markov chains. Direction can only turn 90 degrees at once, color can only progress through the rainbow, and pensize can only change by one size level. The exact probabilities for these attributes can be found in the relative transition matricies. 

This asignment was personally meaningful to me for a few reasons. First, I spent a long time thinking about different ideas and had an extremely hard time making any of them grounded in visual art. I looked at a few ideas like predicting NBA championships off previous results or trying to make some sort of collage of images related to players stats using the markov property. Overall I felt that this was not the point of the assignment so I tried to rethink everything. After continuing to think for a long time and being increadibly stressed out my many things in my life, I decided I just wanted to generate some markov ranibows. I really enjoyed the way the product looked and it strongly reminded me of the old mac pipe generator screen savers and the nyan cat, so I added that as the cursor for fun. The resulting art made me happy which was a welcome addition to my last few weeks. On top of this, the abstract nature of the product really helped me feel like I was doing something artistic rather than strictly mathmatical and computational, which I was having a very hard doing before. While this project could have been more technically intense or tied to a specific topic, I had a very hard time and it was just what I needed to get into the creative mindset and cheer myself up. This project is meaningful to me because it was something simple and fun that made me happy and I honestly needed that. 

This assignment was also very challenging to me for a few reasons. First, I was very out of practice in working alone. Over the past few years in CS I have actually had not that many individual coding assignments and it felt very different to be alone again. It was hard to not bounce ideas or simple questions off people all the time, but also it was very hard to stay as motivated. It is related to the 3rd remote semester in a row, but I think I have relied a lot on others to help me stay motivated during this time and this assignment reminded me that I need to find that in myself sometimes. This will be very important to me for all future work that I do. Second, as I mentioned earlier, I had a hard time being creative, especially alone. I spent a lot of time thinking about different ideas and implementations that should have been cut down with practice. Both of these things pushed me outside of my current comfort zone, as I had gotten too used to noncreative assignments with my peers. In the future I will continue to grow as an individual computer scientist and have more personal agency over my creative processes with active practice. 

With regard to creativity, I do not think my system is overly creative. I may have too high expectations for creativity, but I think my program is fairly abstract, and I would like it to express a specific idea more if I wanted to see it as more truly creative. That being said I liked the way some of the images made me think or feel sort of like ink blots or clouds. For example ex2 sort of looked like a person holding a gun while ex5 looked like a person on the left hooked up to an experience machine. I like that my system uses the markov property to generate some fun new images semi creatively, but I recognize that it could have a more specific goal. In the end I am satisfied with it though and thoroughly enjoy the generated products as they were able to make me feel rewarded. 

